{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12600\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Drapchaty, Matt\
Framework Selection (Research Activity)\
\
	I have chosen to go with Code Igniter, which is a PHP web framework created in 2006 by Rick Ellis. Code Igniter can be found at www.codeigniter.com, where it is easily downloaded for free and has excellent documentation on how to use the framework within your own php code. A web framework in simple terms is much like a library, or group of libraries containing prebuilt actions/functions/classes etc. to make creating your own web application/API\'92s easier, cleaner, and more concise. CodeIgniter is based on the MVC(model-view-controller) architecture. \
	\
	There are a few reasons why I have chosen to go with Code Igniter. The first being I have some previous experience working with PHP to use CRUD in web applications, making this an easier starting point. Second of all, PHP is a very widely used and powerful language that I feel will benefit me in the working world. I believe that learning frameworks to understand PHP better and/or to be able to create more efficient applications for the web in less time is something I feel will be very useful. Other reasons for choosing this framework include the fact that CodeIgniter is free, open-source, fast, uses MVC, and generates clean URL\'92s,  has thorough documentation, an active community, and does not require the use of a template engine which also increases performance.  For all these reasons I believe learning CodeIgniter will be a great boon to my coding abilities and will be helpful in my career of creating effective web applications.\
\
	My plan is to use the CodeIgniter framework to create an online application that will store, and calculate the users \'93tips\'94 from any job that earns tips. This application will store the users tips, the day they were earned, as well as the amount of hours worked to earn those tips. The app will do some simple arithmetic to give the users averages of tips per hour or total tips per month, highest tips, lowest tips, as well as information revolving around what days of the week earn most tips and what days of the week earn least tips. I believe using CodeIgniter in my PHP with MySQL GUI to interact with a CRUD style database, as well as Facebook API for users to login and save their info, I can achieve this goal. Although I have not used CodeIgniter in the past I am expecting it will seed up my process dramatically as well as make things like routing, security, caching, validation, uploading, and creating arrays and tables easier than by doing it manually as well as making CRUD functions simpler.\
\
	Along with the CodeIgniter main site I have found a few other sites with blogs, documentation, or tips as to how CodeIgniter can be used, and what it can be used for. The main site for downloading, and documentation for CodeIgniter is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.codeigniter.com/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.codeigniter.com/}} . I  also found a blog title 10 reasons why code igniter rocks that helped me form my decision and showcases a few things code igniter can do, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://christophermonnat.com/blog/10-reasons-why-codeigniter-rocks"}}{\fldrslt http://christophermonnat.com/blog/10-reasons-why-codeigniter-rocks}}. I also found a very informative video on Lynda.com showcasing CodeIgniter {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.lynda.com/CodeIgniter-tutorials/Up-Running-PHP-CodeIgniter/126122-2.html"}}{\fldrslt https://www.lynda.com/CodeIgniter-tutorials/Up-Running-PHP-CodeIgniter/126122-2.html}}. \
\
	In my research I also managed to find a few sites that use CodeIgniter to show off what a finished web application using this framework would look like such as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://freedcamp.com/"}}{\fldrslt https://freedcamp.com/}}, which is a site that supports team collaboration and communication. I also found {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://buffer.com/"}}{\fldrslt https://buffer.com/}}, which allows the user to post his or her message a single time and have it generate the same message across all or a selected amount of your choice of social media sites. Both of these sites seem to get a fairly large amount of traffic and are done very professionally, I am excited to learn more about CodeIgniter and have it in my arsenal as a web developer. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0        }